Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 6
PRE-PLACEMENT TALK
Students MUST attend a pre-placement talk organized by recruiting corporate.
PPT provides the necessary information to students about the organization,
expectations, and process involved in the recruitment process. This is an
opportunity for students to interact with HR to clarify doubts.
Students should be seated in the auditorium or login into the virtual meeting room
15 minutes before the scheduled time.
OFFER POLICY
(a) For Circuit branches- CSE, ECE, EE
 A student is eligible to receive a maximum of TWO Offers.
 Once a student receives TWO offers as mentioned, he/ she will not be
eligible to attend any other recruitment process.
 Request for SECOND OFFER will be considered provided
o The offer made is more than (2n-1)*
o EXAMPLE
 Current package – 6 LPA
 The Second offer should be >= 11 LPA
 ( 6,00,000 x 2 - 1 )
(b) For Core Engineering Branches- Petroleum, Civil &
Mechanical. For Non Engineering- B.A (Hons), B.SC(Hons) &
M.SC- All Branches
In View of limited opportunities for the core sector and for the benefit of all
placement opted students from the core engineering departments, the offer
policy is slightly different from the circuit branches.
 A student is eligible to receive a maximum of TWO Offers.
 If the first offer secured by the student is IT Profile, the student will be
eligible for second offer as per the following conditions.
(i) Only one IT offer will be allowed to core engineering students.
(ii) For core opportunity, the student will be eligible as per the
second offer policy.
 If the first offer secured by the student is core opportunity, thereafter
the student would be eligible for second opportunity in accordance to
(2n-1) policy* mentioned above. Further, she/he has to strict for the
Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 7
accepted opportunity and should join when the company will on board
the selected candidate.
NUMBER OF ATTEMPTS
Each student will be allowed 6 attempts for getting an offer. If a student is unable
to convert these into an offer, he/ she may be considered out of the placement
process at the discretion of DITU &/or respective School/ Institute.
PRE-PLACEMENT OFFER/ INTENT (PPO/PPI)
On the performance of the students during their Summer/Winter Training/
Internship, the company may give a PPO/PPI (Pre-Placement Offer or Intent) to the
student. Such students are encouraged to accept the offer and if terms do not suit
the student s/he is advised to reach out to CDC / CSC for help. Direct
communication by the student with the company officials will not be entertained
under any circumstances.
Note: In case of accepting any Off Campus Offer (OCO) student must
immediately inform Career Services Cell.
INTERNSHIP PROCESS
 Some companies hire students as interns/trainees and then consider the
student for a regular appointment during or after the assessment period. In
case a student opts for an internship model then he/ she would be required
to complete the duration of the internship as specified in good spirit and to
the best of their abilities.
 An internship is scheduled during the summer break or during the last
semester of a program as per the academic guidelines.
 Bonafide Letters for Internship will be issued for one organization only.
 No Bonafide Letters will be issued after the commencement of
Internships.
 Students who apply for internships through CSC are obligated to join
the organisation that confirms their internships.
 Students who are getting Internships on their own should inform CSC on
the selection of their Internship and Specialization.
Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 8
 The duration of an internship program will differ depending on the
program.
 If the organization decides to extend the internship duration, the
same must be communicated to CSC and to the respective Head of
the department for necessary approval.
 The organization has the right to terminate students from the
internship at any time due to inappropriate behaviour and/or non-
cooperation with the internship process and/or continued non-
performance in assignment or any other reason the organization
deems fit.
OPTING OUT OF PLACEMENT
 Any student wishing to opt out of the Campus Placement or Internship
Support process should inform the CSC in writing and well in advance.
 If she/he has not done so earlier and is shortlisted/offered a position by an
organization through the campus recruitment process (process
initiated/conducted earlier), she/he will be liable to accept the offer.
 In event of any conflicts, the final decision will rest with the placement
committee which will act under the guidance of the Dean/Registrar/VC of
the University.
Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 9
PROCESS FLOW
COMMUNICATION FLOW
Internal
Platform
(POD)
WhatsApp
FCs/
Mentors
/CRs
E-mail
Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 10
PLEASE NOTE: Corporate will send test-related communication directly to the
registered E-mail ids of the student. So, students are advised to use their DITU E-
mail ids and remember the same.
DEVIATION AND OUTCOME
Deviation Outcome
Eligible and did not apply on Platform Cannot appear for the drive
Applied in platform but did not apply
on the corporate web-site
Cannot appear for the drive
Applied with the wrong email id Cannot appear for the drive
Applied with the wrong contact
number
Cannot appear for the drive
Late registration Registration will not be accepted
Incomplete registration Registration will not be accepted
Registered but did not attend the PPT Not eligible to attend the next
recruitment process
Registered but did not attend the
written test
Not eligible to attend the next 3
recruitment processes
Written test cleared but did not attend
GD/TI /PI
Not eligible to attend the next 3
recruitment processes
Final offer made but did not accept Will be removed from placement
eligible list
Final offer accepted but did not join
for internship / FTE
Will be removed from placement
eligible list
Improper behaviour during the
recruitment process
Debarred from the further placement
process
Found guilty of Malpractice (cheating,
misappropriating information, using
unfair means) or influence
Debarred from the further placement
process
Negative Sign Up
If a student has registered for a placement drive and does not appear during the
said Campus recruitment, s/he will be accounted as Negative Sign up.
 Caution letter will be issued in case of 1 Negative sign up.
 Warning letter will be issued in case of 2 Negative sign up (during entire
placement season)
 Debarred letter from Placement process will be issued in case of 3 Negative
sign up (during entire placement season)
Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 11
Note:
 Bulk Recruiter Policy: The negative attempt and six-attempt policy will
not apply to bulk recruiters. You may pursue positions with as many bulk
recruiters as you wish. However, to be eligible for opportunities offering a
minimum salary of 15 LPA, you must participate in the recruitment process
for at least three bulk recruiters, even if you qualify under the 2n-1 policy.
 Multiple Offers: This adjustment will assist you in securing multiple offers,
in addition to benefiting from the dual offer policy.
 Bulk Recruiter Identification: CSC will specify whether a company is
classified as a bulk recruiter when such opportunities will be shared.
 Technical and Techno-Commercial Salary Criteria Policy: The negative
sign-up and six-attempt policy will apply only to technical or techno-
commercial roles offering a salary of 4 LPA and above.
 Monetary Bond Exemption: The negative sign-up and six-attempt policy
will not apply to opportunities associated with monetary bonds.
GENERAL RULES
 Each student is expected to follow the instructions of CSC staff/ placement
committee student members/ handlers during PPTs/ Guest Lectures/
placement process, etc. Specific School-wise Eligibility criteria to be shared
separately (If any).
 All students should provide complete details in the Web Portal.
 AMCAT Assessment (Mandatory): Students pursuing B.Tech, MBA, MCA, and
BCA programs must appear for the AMCAT (Aspiring Minds Computer
Adaptive Test) assessment. AMCAT scores will be included by students in
the data sheets shared with potential employers/CSC.
 Resume Verification (Mandatory): Students registered for placements must
have their resumes verified by the CDC well in advance before uploading
them for placement purposes.
 Once the database and CVs are shared with recruiters, students are not
allowed to withdraw. Hence students are required to think/ check out all
the details about the company/ Job profile before applying for any
company.
 If a student wants to apply directly to any company should obtain
permission from CSC and will not be eligible to attend the recruitment
process organized by CSC. He / She can only apply to companies for which
the Final Placement is over and/ or the company has already visited the
campus/ or the company does not take part in the placement process at the
University.
 There are situations where students may receive offer letter directly from
Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 12
the Company, in such situation the student needs to inform CSC
immediately and should send a confirmation mail in consent with CSC
contact person/s ( relevant with the placement drive). In case the student
choose to decline the offer, student will write a mail citing a proper reason
for declining the offer to CSC contact person/s (relevant with the placement
drive). In such case student will not write offer decline mail directly to
company under any circumstance. Further, in case of offer declined by
student s/he will be thereafter removed from placement eligible list.
 Once placed, the student should continue with the same organization as
agreed or specified during PPT and maintain a healthy relationship between
the University and the organization. In case of unavoidable circumstances,
the student must contact and seek necessary advice from CSC before
communicating their decision to the organization.
 Students are encouraged and advised to simultaneously try other options
such as job sites, professional sites, personal and family networks,
newspaper ads etc.
 Students are required to strictly maintain decorum once inside the PPT/
Guest Lecture/ events hall/ room. Eatables, newspapers, etc. are not
allowed into the Hall (except notebooks, pens/pencils) and mobile phones
should be strictly on silent mode/ switched off.
 Students opting for the internship should be aware of companies visiting the
campus and they have to make their own arrangements for travel and get
necessary permission from their Institution.
 Students once selected for a project, event, etc. through campus/ off
campus, she/he has to complete the same as per the guidelines of the
organization.
Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 13
Duties of CSC Personnel
Roles and Responsibilities of Academic Departments and
Departmental Coordinator:
1. Provision of faculty coordinator from respective branches will be closely
working with Career Development Cell and Career Services Department
during the placement preparation initiatives and progress of placement
activities and will be jointly associated in capturing the feedback from the
industry (as per his/her availability during the feedback session), post any
campus event. For off campus drive the same may be organized through
Tele/Skype conference. Team Career Services Cell (CSC) will be
responsible for disseminating all the information well in time, upon
receiving the information in hand.
2. Respective Department will ensure full participation of all registered
students during various training initiatives and placement drives.
3. HOD’s & DPCS’s will ensure their presence during the feedback session.
4. Department will ensure all students participate for registration process.
5. For Internships, Academic Departments will release LOR and NOC to their
students from their respective offices.
Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 14
Grievances if any will be addressed to the Placement Grievance Redressal
Committee comprising of Dean Academic Affairs, HoD of concerned
department and representative of Dean Career Services, Committee will
submit their recommendations for approval of Vice Chancellor through the
office of Pro- Vice Chancellor.
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR ON-THE-JOB INTERNSHIP/OJT/FTE
 The student should be punctual and report on time as desired and instructed
by his / her supervisor.
 The sincerity and hard work during the internship is the key to the student's
chances of getting a pre-placement offer/conversion of the offer in FTE.
Every student should strive for that.
 As an intern/OJT, the student is like an employee of the organization and
will have to follow all rules and regulations of the company. This includes
rules related to dressing, attendance, work behaviour, etc.
 In the unlikely event that the student has to take a leave including an
absence for a short duration (say, a few hours), you have to take the
permission and consent of your supervisor. However, leaves should be taken
only in unavoidable circumstances and have to be minimized to the
minimum possible period/days.
 Students applying through CSC will mandatorily have to join the organization
which confirms such an internship/OJT. Any deviation must be informed
well in advance and prior to receiving Internship/OJT confirmation from
CSC.
 In case of the confirmed offer is declined subsequently, the student shall be
summarily barred from any further Placement/Internship support for the
balance of his course. Students are discouraged from taking such action as it
reflects poorly on DITU Placement Process and their ethical standards.
****** Wish you all the best*******
Policies for Training, Placement & Internship
Career Development & Services Cell Page | 15
Letter of Undertaking by Student
(To be submitted to CSC)
I son/daughter of
Hereby declare that I have read and understood the terms and conditions
mentioned in the document related to Career Services Cell (CSC) and Career
Development Cell (CDC) rules and I will adhere to them in letter and spirit. In
addition to this, I understand the CSC/CDC might add/modify any rule from time to
time and I shall adhere to the changed rules, duly communicated, as well. In case
of any violations, I shall be liable to appear before the Disciplinary Committee for
further action and the decision of the DC shall be binding on me.
Signature of the Student
Date:
Place:
Name of the Student:
Roll No:
School:
Branch & Specialization:
Mobile No:
SAP ID:
For office use only:
Received by:
Received date: